You've already
learned a lot about
SQL queries and
filters. Nice work!
The last concept
we're introducing in
this section is joining tables
when querying a database.
This is helpful when you need
information from two different
tables in a database.
Let's say we have two tables:
one that tells us about
security vulnerabilities of
different operating
systems, and one
about different machines
in our company,
including their
operating systems.
Having the ability
to combine them
gives us a list of
vulnerable machines.
That's pretty cool, right?
First, let's start talking about
the syntax of joins.
Since we're working
with two tables now,
we need a way to tell SQL
what table we're
picking columns from.
In our example database,
we have an employee_id column
in both the employees table
and the machines table.
In SQL statements that
contain two columns,
SQL needs to know which
column we're referring to.
The way to resolve this is by
writing the name of
the table first,
then a period, and then
the name of a column.
So, we would have employees
followed by a period,
followed by the column name.
This is the employee_id column
for the employees table.
Similarly, this is the
employee_id column
for the machines table.
Now that we understand
this syntax,
let's apply it to a join!
Imagine that we want to get
a deeper understanding of
the employees accessing the
machines in our company.
By joining the employees and
the machines tables,
we can do this!
We first need to identify
the shared column that we'll
use to connect the two tables.
In this case, we'll
use a primary key and
one table to connect to
another table where
it's a foreign key.
The primary key of the
employees table is employee_id,
which is a foreign key
in the machines table.
employee_id is a primary key
in the employees
table because it has
a unique value for every row in
the employees table,
and no empty values.
We don't have a guarantee that
the employee_id column in
the machines table follows
the same criteria since it's
a foreign key and
not a primary key.
Next, we'll use a type of
join called an INNER JOIN.
An INNER JOIN returns
rows matching on
a specified column that exists
in more than one table.
Tables usually contain
many more rows,
but to further explain what
we mean by INNER JOIN,
let's focus on just
four rows from
the employees table and four
rows from the machines table.
We'll also look at
just a few columns of each
table for this example.
Let's say we choose
employee_id in both tables
to perform an INNER JOIN.
Let's look at the two rows
where there is a match.
Both tables have 1188 and
1189 in their respective
employee_id columns,
so they are considered a match.
The results of the join is
the two rows that have 1188
and 1189 and all columns
from both tables.
Before we move on
to the queries,
we have to talk about the
NULL values in the tables.
In SQL, NULL represents a missing
value due to any reason.
In this case, this might be
machines that are not
assigned to any employee.
Now, let's bring this into SQL
and do an INNER JOIN
on the full tables.
Let's imagine we want to join
these tables in order to
get a list of users and
their office location
that also shows
what operating system they
use on their machines.
employee_id is a common
column between these tables, and
we can use this to join them.
But we won't need to show
this column in the results.
First, let's start
with a basic query
that indicates we want
to select the username,
office, and
operating_system columns.
We want employees to be
our first or left table, so
we'll use that in our
FROM statement.
Now, we write the part of
the query that tells SQL
to join the machines table
with the employees table.
Let's break down this query.
INNER JOIN tells SQL to
perform the INNER JOIN.
Then, we name the second table
we want to combine
with the first.
This is called the right table.
In this case, we want
to join machines with
the employees table that was
already identified after FROM.
Lastly, we tell SQL what
column to base the join on.
In our case, we're using
the employee_id column.
Since we're using two tables,
we have to identify the table
and follow that with
the column name.
So, we have employees.employee_id.
And machines.employee_id.
Let's review the output.
Perfect! We have now
joined two tables.
The results of our
query displays
the records that match on
the employee_id column.
Notice that these records
contain columns
from both tables,
but only the ones we've
indicated through our
SELECT statement.
There are other types
of joins that don't
require a match to
join two tables, and
we're going to discuss those in
the next video. I'll
meet you there!